Update Helm chart to 17.0.2 and keycloak from v15.0.2 to v16.1.1 (#119)
projectsyn/component-keycloak: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/upgrade-6.x-to-7.x.adoc

= Upgrade from v6 to v7

This guide describes the steps to perform an upgrade of the component from version v6 to v7.

== Changes

Keycloak will be upgraded from v15.0.2 to v16.1.1 and if the built-in PostgreSQL database is used, PostgreSQL is going to be updated from 11.8.0-debian-10-r61 to 11.11.0-debian-10-r31.

== Step-by-step guide

> When upgrading the component, the following actions are required if the built-in database is used:
> 
> . Take a backup of the built-in database!
> . Unchangable attributes in the postgres statefulset are going to be changed.
>   If ArgoCD can't apply the statefulset, it needs to be deleted:
>   `kubectl -n syn-keycloak delete sts keycloak-postgresql`
>   This don't touch the PVC `data-keycloak-postgresql-0`.

Reviewer: (I'm not quite sure if that renders nicely in the docs preview)
```suggestion
When upgrading the component, the following actions are required if the built-in database is used:

. Make a backup of the built-in database.

. Apply the parameter changes.

. Compile and push the cluster catalog.

. If ArgoCD can't apply the updated StatefulSet, it needs to be deleted: `kubectl -n syn-keycloak delete sts keycloak-postgresql`.
  +
  [NOTE]
  ====
  This step is necessary since the upgrade changes immutable properties in the Postgres StatefulSet if using the built-in database.
  This won't delete the PVC `data-keycloak-postgresql-0`.  
  ====

. Verify that ArgoCD can sync all resources.
```

= Upgrade from v6 to v7

This guide describes the steps to perform an upgrade of the component from version v6 to v7.

== Parameter changes

* `charts.keycloak` changed from `10.3.1` to `17.0.2`, that includes the `bitnami/postgresql` chart update from `9.1.1` to `10.3.13`.
* `helm_values.image.tag` version pin removed from the defaults, which means a Keycloak upgrade from `v15.0.2` to `v16.1.1`.
* `helm_values.ingress.path[0]` changed from `/` (string array) to `{"path": "/", "pathType": "Prefix"}` (object array).
* `helm_values.postgres.master` renamed to `helm_values.postgres.primary`.
* If built-in database is used, PostgreSQL is going to be upgraded from `11.8.0-debian-10-r61` to `11.11.0-debian-10-r31`.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

If you've configured custom values for any of those parameters, make sure to adjust your configurations when upgrading from component version v6 to v7.

```

== Step-by-step guide

When upgrading the component, the following actions are required if the built-in database is used:

> . Make a backup of the built-in database.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice if the upgrade how-to would provide an example command for creating a backup of the built-in database.

Author: Added an example how to do a manual DB backup

. Apply the parameter changes.

. Compile and push the cluster catalog.

> . If ArgoCD can't apply the updated StatefulSet, it needs to be deleted: `kubectl -n syn-keycloak delete sts keycloak-postgresql`.
>   +
>   [NOTE]
>   ====
>   This step is necessary since the upgrade changes immutable properties in the Postgres StatefulSet if using the built-in database.
>   This won't delete the PVC `data-keycloak-postgresql-0`.
>   ====

Reviewer 2: The note says this is necessary, but the step starts with "If ArgoCD can't apply the updated StatefulSet" which sends very mixed signals? Do I have to do this always? Only if ArgoCD gets stuck? ...

```suggestion
. If you use the built-in database, you need to delete its StatefulSet to allow ArgoCD to apply the new version.
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n syn-keycloak delete sts keycloak-postgresql
----
+
[NOTE]
====
This step is necessary since the upgrade changes immutable properties in the Postgres StatefulSet if using the built-in database.
This won't delete the PVC `data-keycloak-postgresql-0`.
====
```

Also, please check new documentation with `make docs-serve`, this step did not get rendered properly because the NOTE was indented by two spaces.
